hello hello everyone welcome to the
padreon for monday june 13th 2022 my
name is james
and nick's not here um
nick has decided to take an extended
leave of absence no he's um
just visiting his family and decided to
stay a bit longer than originally
planned
and since he hasn't gotten to see his
family in
years since before the pandemic started
i would say that that's pretty justified
um
so instead of spending this episode of
the padreon just rambling on about some
random things
because then it would just be me saying
um for about 30 minutes of an hour-long
podcast
i decided to do something a little
different
um
as you can see i'm humming already
i've been working on a memoir because
i'm just that full of myself
and
i thought maybe i could read the first
couple of chapters
for you for this
padreon
and you know see what you think see if
it's worth continuing and also get some
honest feedback as well that would be
really good
so
uh tentatively it's called seven days to
the weekend
all right so chapter one
adventures in coming out
i've always been a very impatient person
as anyone who's worked with me can admit
so when i finally came to the
realization that i was in fact gay i was
quite annoyed at the idea of the closet
i wanted everyone to know how else was i
supposed to find a boyfriend if nobody
else laid
sorry
how else was i supposed to find a
boyfriend if nobody knew that i liked
boys
hope that there was some kind of gay
telepathy that gaydar actually was an
inherent trait
i didn't have time to wait around for
people to ask or for people to realize
it or horror of horrors wait for quote
the right time to come out
i had to get this train moving enough
waiting i'd been in the closet plenty
long enough already
the very first person i told was my best
friend mark who i'd been best friends
with since i was about seven
we were practically inseparable
throughout elementary school we both
loved wrestling video games anime and
horror movies we even went on vacation
with each other's families we were like
two halves of one hole
so i had to tell him as soon as possible
because yes at the tender age of 11 i'd
already fallen into the age-old trap of
being totally in love with your straight
best friend
but how did i know he was straight he
didn't know i was gay yet so for all i
knew he could be gay too
i had to be strategic about it though
i'd seen the movies and tv shows where
someone comes out and then their
straight best friend wants nothing to do
with them
i couldn't give him the opportunity to
do that i'd be heartbroken so i waited
until that coming summer break between
fourth and fifth grade when he'd be
coming with my family to the little
cottage we rented near a lake named
ainsley
it was a part of a small campground
called sunset cottages and my mother
father and i had been going there every
summer for the last couple of years
i loved it because it had an in-ground
swimming pool which meant i didn't need
to go anywhere near the dirty lake
i still prefer pools to natural bodies
of water
and best of all the campground was in
the middle of nowhere
about an hour away from the nearest
grocery store three hours away from home
there was nowhere for mark to run if he
was straight he'd have to live with me
being gay for at least the length of the
trip in the same bedroom no less so i'd
have plenty of time to make sure that we
went home still friends if not more
so on the first night there after we'd
unpacked and we're watching one of about
a dozen movies we'd rented from
blockbuster on the way up mark and i
laid on our beds in the tiny bedroom
there was a horrible rainstorm whipping
up outside our window which was great
for the ambiance of the particular
friday the 13th we were watching and
even better because if mark reacted
badly he'd be even less likely to run
away
what straight boy is dramatic enough to
run out into a rainstorm right
i really need to tell you something i
said to him pausing the movie
he looked over at me with fear in his
eyes and my stomach dropped
that wasn't a phrase he was very fond of
and not because he regularly had friends
coming out to him but because it was the
first word spoken to him by his mother
when his father died that had been a few
years ago but that along with the sight
of a certain make of minivan could still
send
chills down his spine
what he asked with a quiver in his voice
ah jesus i couldn't do this not now i'd
messed up
ah it's nothing i said sorry
jimmy what is it he asked
everyone called me jimmy back then
before i finally made the switch to
james when i moved to film school
nothing i laughed
i was just being dumb
crap i think i forgot my game boy in the
car
was i really that bad at covering things
up god i'd have to come out there was no
way i'd be able to stay in the closet
with a poker face like this
i got up from my bed and approached the
closed door determined to break the
moment and
walk out into the pouring rain to look
for the game boy i knew was under my
pillow but the door was closer to mark's
bed and he jumped up to get there before
me blocking my way i [ __ ] you not
what is it he demanded i knew mom was
being weird before i left she wants you
to tell me something
what i asked completely perplexed no
nothing like that i didn't even talk to
your mom
but my mom talked to your mom and she
told her to tell you to tell me
something right so tell me
how the hell had this blown up in my
face so quickly
your mom didn't tell anyone anything i
said at least no one told me anything i
just i just need to get my game boy your
game boy is on your bed he said and it's
on so you should probably turn it off is
it i ask turning back to see the little
hunk of see-through purple plastic that
had just betrayed me
oh it is
maybe i need glasses or something
tell me what's going on jimmy i swear to
god okay what did mom say nothing don't
lie i can tell when you're lying
apparently
i'm well that was a fine job of the
words just not leaving my mouth at all
your what he asked can we sit back down
no
mark i'm gay
i know that but what did my mom say your
mom didn't say anything i almost yelled
catching my voice and then slipping into
a whisper
what do you mean you know i'm gay
we've been friends for like years
you always want to re-watch wrestlemania
10 where shawn michaels moons the crowd
and your favorite dragon ball z
character is trunks
i just got read by a straight boy
presumed straight
well i began and suddenly this question
weighed a lot heavier than actually
coming out did
are you gay no he said loudly
no he said flatly sorry
what do you mean sorry you probably have
a crush on me
i should have been offended in fact i
acted offended even though he was
completely right
what do you mean i laughed you're not my
type i like blonde guys
so how come you always stare at me when
we go swimming
the straight boy had been paying way too
much attention to where my eyes had been
looking uh because i stammered
he cocked his eyebrow i hated it when he
did that he looked so cute
go on he said
well so what if i do
so you do then
he sat back down on his bed and i stayed
standing i didn't say i did i said so
what if i do
i wouldn't be mad
okay
nothing really different i guess just
you know don't hit on me or anything
okay then i said and then sat back down
on my bed pressing play on the vcr
a few moments went by as we sat in
silence watching a big boobed camp
counselor getting paled
mark laid on his stomach chin resting on
his palms while i sat a bolt upright
and greece
he said
huh
you like greece
he said
like a lot
i don't know any guys who like musicals
well then
i guess my first coming out could have
gone a whole lot worse
the rest of the vacation went smoothly
with mark keeping my secret from my
parents for me and giving me knowing
looks every time he pulled himself out
of the pool
he thought i was looking at his butt but
i was not looking at his butt his shorts
were just very tight and yellow so they
grabbed your attention that's all in any
case
he didn't seem to mind
i decided to try my luck once again
later that summer when i came out to my
friend beverly
we were hanging out in my basement a
favorite place of all my friends since i
was cool
sorry
a favorite place of all my friends since
it was cool all summer long down there
i'm gay i said with no preamble
beverly screamed then jumped up down
hugged me and spun me around oh my god
gay best friend she squealed
i totally knew but i'm so happy that you
told me
apparently she knew because the year
prior she myself mark and our friend
matt would play jerry springer show in
my basement beverly and mark would be
quote dating and then bev would reveal
that she was cheating with matt or she
and matt would be quote dating and she'd
reveal that she was cheating with mark
but i was always
always jerry apparently my lack of
interest in pretending to date her made
it loud and clear that i was much more
interested in mark
by the time she went home that day she'd
let me know that she thought i'd had a
crush on mark but refute
sorry by the time she went home that day
she'd let me know that she thought i had
a crush on mark but i refused to confirm
it
was i that damn obvious
i hadn't even really admitted it to
myself and yet everyone else seemed to
know
round three of coming out was the real
tester
my grandmother
she'd been a nun in her youth before
leaving the sisterhood to become a nurse
and give birth to 12 children one of
whom was my mom
that was long ago though at this point
in her life she mostly just sat down in
her recliner and watched tv
diabetes had long ago taken most of her
sight and caused kidney damage so severe
that she had to have dialysis treatment
three times a week
because she wasn't very active most of
the grandkids didn't come around that
often at least not the boys but i did a
few days a week i'd come over after
school and sit down with her and watch
soap operas with her
she listened to them mostly because the
tv was a blur to her at that point but
that's what was great about soap operas
they're all dialogue so you could still
enjoy them
i like to think my love of pro wrestling
grew out of watching soap operas with
her wrestling is in the end just a soap
opera with more action so one cold day
in october while my grandfather was out
at a pumpkin patch my grandmother and i
sat down in the warm living room
watching days of our lives when the show
went to a commercial break i asked her
man
what does god think of gay people
since she was a former nun and the only
even semi-religious person in the family
i figured she'd be the authority on the
subject
not taking her eyes off of the tv she
said
well
people say it's adam and eve not adam
and steve
but i don't think god said anything
about gay people
i know he doesn't make mistakes though
so he meant for gay people to be here
and then she looked over at me
why do you ask i was just wondering i
said mom was watching will and grace and
i just thought about it
that's a funny show she said
what if i was gay
i asked or someone else were related to
well she said and thought for a moment
god helped the person whoever said a
nasty word to them about it
i'm tougher than i look you know she
winked and i smiled
you could rough him up man i said
yep she agreed
or get someone else to people owe me
favors
i laughed again as the commercial break
came to an end as the cheesy music swept
back into the room my grandmother looked
back over to the screen
should have been adam and steve anyway
she said
eve just had to go ahead and eat that
apple steve would have went for the
bananas
while i was walking home that day which
was only about four streets away my
grandmother called my mother
hello my mom had said
jimmy just left here and theresa he's
gay i don't want you to say a single
mean word to him if you turn him out
i'll never speak a word to you again
ma jesus my mother gasps i know he's gay
it's fine
you take care of him theresa she said
he's going to need us
so it seemed everyone important to me
knew that i was gay before i did
and my grandmother was right
i was going to need them
i apologize for um
little mistakes that i'm making
while reading um
this is absolutely not proof red
chapter 2
knock on wood
i always say that i never really
experienced a whole lot of homophobia
growing up which is mostly true
whenever someone wanted to hit a nerve
with me they'd make fun of my weight as
i was overweight since i was about three
once you're out of the closet making fun
of you for being gay doesn't really have
that much punch anymore that's fine with
being gay so most bullies knew that
there was no point in focusing in on
that
so they focused in on my belly instead
i was not okay with my belly which
continues to haunt me to this day
but not everyone was clever enough to
direct their bullying to my body issues
my coming out process continued
throughout the fifth grade the girls
were excited to have a gay friend the
guys were mostly nonchalant about it
always telling me to not hit on them but
inevitably wanting to know if i thought
they were hot
straight male egos are fragile evil
straight male egos are fragile even in
childhood
the teachers were perplexed at how
brazen i was about it the principal was
constantly calling my friends into the
office for saying that i was gay only
for me to finally come in and proclaim
to the whole damn staff that i was
the gym teacher who i later learned was
a lesbian go figure started to act as my
protector during recess and lunch breaks
always keeping an eye on the other kids
to make sure i wasn't in any kind of
danger which was hard to gauge since a
bunch of other kids and myself had
started the kwf kid wrestling federation
and wrestled every day during recess and
lunch on the grass outside school
it only became an issue when a wire
fence was put up to separate the school
grounds from the street and we had the
brilliant idea to start having cage
matches
so all in all but for a few
misadventures with teachers thinking i
was being bullied by my own friends
nothing had really changed
we were all kids kissing was
as far as anyone had gone and even that
was only a select few
so what difference did it make if i
liked boys or girls
but not everyone felt that way
this story is hard to tell not because
i'm traumatized by it or something but
because there are big chunks i simply
can't remember
most of it's taken from things told to
me by my family
i know that in the following spring i
was walking home from school on a friday
i'd stayed late because me and a group
of friends were practicing for the
upcoming talent show and where all 12 of
us were performing
sorry i'd stayed late because me and a
group of friends were practicing for the
upcoming talent show where all 12 of us
were to perform greased lightning
i'd convinced nine straight guys to
dance to greece lightning mark as well
as my friends beverly and carrie
including mark as well as my friends
beverly and carrie
the choreography i'd come up with was so
complex the music teacher was taking it
upon himself to help us out after class
so i was winded being asthmatic but
exhilarated
until i heard some guys come up behind
me
hey [ __ ] i heard one of them yell
i was only a few houses away from where
i lived so i decided to simply not
engage with them
to simply not engage with the guys who
all appeared to be three or four years
older than me so i set my head forward
and walked a bit faster
my little brother said you're a [ __ ] i
heard
you're gonna [ __ ] molest them
two houses away just get home
i look back again
they were obviously in high school 16 or
17 years old
leave me alone i said and then turn back
toward my house so close
and then a white light spread across my
vision and pain flared in the back of my
head
i remember that white light clear as day
a rock the size of an adult man's fist
fell to the ground behind me i touched
the back of my head terrified that i
might be bleeding
i didn't feel anything though
so once the white light had subsided i
ran to my house
i told my mom what had happened as soon
as i got home and she burst out into the
street to find the guys who attacked me
but they disappeared
probably run through the yard of some
neighbors
i remember her deciding then and there
that i'd be driven to and from school
from now on even though i lived on the
same street as the school
she didn't want to risk it
my head wasn't bleeding and there didn't
seem to be a bump but she wasn't taking
any chances
i can't remember most of that weekend
honestly until sunday afternoon i was
hanging out with my friend nathan in his
garage we were comparing our digimon
cards and
we were comparing our digimon cards when
that white light came back for a split
second followed by a weird swirling
rainbow in the corner of my eye
i didn't know what was going on but it
felt like my eyes were being pulled
toward the rainbow
then i was in a hospital bed doctors and
nurses smiling around me once they
noticed that my eyes were open they
started asking me questions did i know
my name did i know the date did i know
what town i was in but i couldn't speak
i knew the answers to all the questions
but i couldn't force my mouth to make
the sounds the frustration of not being
able to answer them drove me to tears
one of the nurses who was actually
nathan's mom was holding my hand
repeatedly telling me that i was going
to be okay that my mom was on her way
only moments after the door to the room
burst open
my mom and two of my aunts lunging into
the room
my aunt kathy immediately went to the
door
doctor my aunt kelly went to the nurses
and my mom came to me she took my other
hand and tears in her eyes started
telling me that i was okay
i tried speaking but i couldn't which
just drove me further into tearful
hysterics
kathy approached my mom and said he's
had a seizure the doctor said he's out
of it though
why can't he talk my mom asked
that happens sometimes nathan's mom
answered it'll pass he just needs to
take it easy
and so that's what we did
i laid in that bed my mom holding my
hand for about an hour before i was
finally able to form words again the
general hospital i'd been admitted to
released me later that day but when
night had fallen and i still couldn't
and i still wouldn't eat my parents got
worried and took me to the larger
regional hospital
we admit they who admitted me and kept
me overnight for observation
they wouldn't let my parents stay the
night so i slept in a very large lonely
room for the night
the next morning the nurses told me i
couldn't go home unless i ate so i
choked down the horrible breakfast and
within minutes was in the car with my
parents driving away
but they had to pull over so i could
puke before we'd even gotten out of the
parking lot
as it turns out i hadn't had one seizure
but multiple one right after the other
the neurologist i saw diagnosed me with
epilepsy and prescribed tegritol to help
control the seizures
my parents knew what about
my parents knew what had brought this on
the rock off the back of my head
but there was nothing anyone could do
about it because i didn't know the boys
who'd been behind me that day
i didn't know who the little brother was
i didn't know any names so we couldn't
report anyone to the police
my parents did talk to the cops though
it led to nothing
if the police had been halfway
interested they probably could have
asked the neighbors if they'd seen
anything but they didn't seem to be all
that interested in helping a gay kid
not the last time i'd have a run-in with
the police as a child
i spent the next few weeks completely
uncoordinated and barely eating i lost
25 pounds which i was thrilled with but
it um but it also meant that i missed
the talent show
apparently grease lightning was a smash
hit mark's mom recorded it for me and
showed me when i was feeling up to
visiting
i was so proud of what we'd pulled off
and completely heartbroken that i
couldn't be there
i watched the tape of the whole talent
show and our group was the only one that
got a standing ovation
apparently the principal was even
frustrated that he hadn't
that we hadn't gone up last because
every act after us couldn't compete
i wanted to have a party for the whole
team but i never got to go back to
school that year may and june were meant
only for recovery
i was absolutely convinced that i was
going to fail the grade especially since
my fifth grade teacher had it out for me
but my mother had worked some magic and
made sure i moved on to the sixth grade
we'll get to the teacher and his family
later
i spent the summer between sixth
between fifth and sixth grade visiting
my neurologist several times a month
having blood work done every two weeks
and watching my parents marriage implode
it had been on the rocks for a few years
as i'd later learned but my sudden
medical issues were a straw that broke
the camel's back
both my parents were under immense
stress which was making it harder and
harder for them to make it work
they would get into fights all the time
sometimes over something as silly as the
wattage of a light bulb to buy
i remember that argument particularly
well because it ended with a shattered
bulb and me being sequestered in my room
with my cat while my mom cleared up the
mess
by the end of the summer they were
sleeping in separate bedrooms my dad in
the master bedroom and my mom in the
computer room slash guest bedroom
when i wasn't dealing with doctors or
parents i'd made my escape to mark's
house since his mom was in nursing
school my parents felt comfortable with
me staying there for longer than a few
hours she made sure i took my meds on
time and i got to hang out with mark and
his gaggle of cousins that all lived
within three or four houses of each
other it was a great escape while it
lasted
running away to mark's house stopped
once the summer ended since mark's mom
was now in school full time and wouldn't
be around to keep an eye on me my mother
was still on edge about the nameless
[ __ ] that knocked me
that knocked the rock off the back of my
head
and keeping to her word had driven me to
and from school every single day
well my father drove me to school in the
morning and my mother picked me up in
the afternoon
no more homophobes throwing rocks at me
but as it turns out my brain didn't need
much of an excuse to go completely
haywire
you see this was the fall of the year
2000 and like any perfectly normal
elementary school kid i was completely
obsessed with the american presidential
election
have i mentioned that i'm canadian
i watched all the debates and cnn became
my channel of choice in the evenings my
parents thought i was losing my mind and
sent me back to a therapist
back to a therapist yes we'll get to
that
so on the night of november 7th 2000 i
was absolutely glued to the tv in the
living room
eating chips and drinking soda like i
was watching wrestlemania
my parents who were shut into their own
rooms looked in on me once in a while
but didn't interrupt or even tell me to
go to bed i'm sure they expected me to
fall asleep on the couch at some point
maybe once the election was called
i stayed up all night long watching the
coverage literally sitting on the edge
of my seat praying to god above that
george w bush wouldn't win the election
i knew he was a homophobe and i had all
intentions on moving to the united
states for college so i couldn't have
the country devolving into a republican
hellscape in the meantime so i had to be
there when al gore was announced the
winner
i didn't know much about gore oddly i
just knew that he wasn't bush and that's
all that mattered to me in my 11 year
old brain
i was still tuned in when the sun came
up and my dad started to stir
he always woke up earlier than mom which
is why he drove me to school in the
morning
you're back at the news huh he asked
assuming i'd slept at some point
they still don't know who won i said how
can you run a country like that
well it's time to get ready for school
eond go get dressed we'll get breakfast
at mcdonald's
i reluctantly left the television still
on but muted while i went to get well i
well i went and got changed and brushed
my teeth
i checked in again before we left just
in case florida had gotten its [ __ ]
together but sadly no
so i went with my dad and had a hash
brown egg mcmuffin and apple juice for
breakfast
dad wanted to go in and eat but i was
but i convinced him to go through the
drive through so we could sit in the car
and we could listen to the news on the
radio
when we got to my school dad parked the
car and waited for me to get out but i
seemed completely entranced by the radio
i don't even remember getting to school
as it turns out lack of sleep and
epilepsy don't mix
according to my dad he asked me if i was
okay but i didn't respond
he shook my shoulder but i went limp in
the seat and then fell into a complete
grand mal seizure foaming at the mouth
eyes rolled back body going rigid and
shaking the whole deal
we didn't have a cell phone so dad
rushed back to the house down the street
he carried me in and laid me on his bed
while my mother woke up and panicked
when she saw what was going on she
immediately called 9-1-1 and is out and
i was rushed to the general hospital
about 10 minutes away within an hour
when i still hadn't exited the seizure
the order was made to transfer me to the
regional hospital my parents wanted to
go in the ambulance with me but they
would have to follow in their car
when i still hadn't exited the seizure
by the time my parents had reached the
regional hospital they were told by a
doctor to expect the worst
at some point the seizure ended but
within minutes a new one started the
doctors hadn't even had time to tell my
parents before i started convulsing all
over again
my parents sat in the waiting room with
my neurologist family doctor and
pediatrician they'd all left their
practices when they heard i'd that i'd
been in a seizure for several hours
my neurologist took my parents aside to
tell them that when seizures last longer
than 10 to 15 minutes let alone this
long it can lead to severe brain damage
around nine o'clock that night i stopped
convulsing
but my heart also stopped
they tried the paddles but nothing was
working
i've been told that the doctor vocally
sobbed when he declared my time of death
he was leaving the room to go tell my
parents when my heart of its own
volition
started up again
the seizures didn't start again and my
vitals stabilized
my parents were moments away from being
told that their only child was dead but
i was too pig-headed to stay down
the doctors did however make it very
clear that i would likely have brain
damage
at the very least i would probably need
to relearn to walk and talk once i came
out of it
my parents were preparing for the worst
i didn't actually regain consciousness
until the next morning november 9 2000
i remember this as clear as day
my parents have been told to go home but
they refused and were sleeping in the
hallway
hello i called
a young nurse rushed in tears in her
eyes followed by an older nurse
i'll get his parents the younger nurse
cheered when she saw me sitting up on my
own
hello the elder nurse said
you've been through a lot can you tell
me your name
how old you are
my parents tore open the curtain
separating me from the rest of the er
and beamed at me my mom immediately
hugged me while my dad tried and failed
to hide his tears mrs summerton please
step back the older nurse said and then
turn to me do you know your name how old
are you
i waved at her that doesn't matter
just please tell me bush didn't win the
election
my mother laughed through her tears
while the older nurse smiled and said
i think we can rule out brain damage
i spent the next eight days in the
hospital going through any number of
daily tests only surviving because the
hospital had a tv channel that was about
80 anime i'd watched all of dragon ball
z up to the arrival and namek by the
time that they let me out of there
i was being held because again i wasn't
eating and my neurologist refused to let
me leave until he saw me eat for himself
and keep it down
my mother came up with a plan
she brought me popcorn chicken from kfc
which i happily ate in front of the
doctors
i didn't throw it up either
so they relented and said that i could
go home the next morning
my dad showed up at the crack of dawn to
drive me home
chapter 3
future outlook unclear
for this chapter i'm going to change a
few names for reasons you'll soon
understand
but first up
context
as a little kid i wanted to be a doctor
then once i entered school and found out
how much i liked arguing with teachers i
decided i wanted to be a lawyer
this shone through in my personality
very quickly in the first grade my
teacher decided that i was to play a cow
in the christmas pageant
and as a kid who had already been to see
a dietitian i did not take kindly to
being called a cow
the argument between he and i lasted for
most of december before i finally walked
out of the her walked out of the
rehearsal and marched right into the
principal's office to declare that mr
mcneill is calling me fat
the principal was appalled
when my teacher eventually explained the
situation she was a bit less stressed
and on her lunch break went to a costume
store and came back with a little set of
goat horns
there you go she said handing them to me
in front of the class you're not a cow
jimmy you're a goat now
thank you i said slipping the little
stuffed horns onto my head i looked at
my teacher and rolled my eyes was that
so hard
he hated me for the rest of the year
turns out he was also the nephew of some
other teachers in the school another mr
mcneil who taught fifth grade and his
wife mrs mcneill who taught fourth grade
when i entered mrs mcneill's fourth
grade class she glared at me
apparently not only had i been a brat to
or nephew a few years before but my
cousin had recently gotten into a
physical fight with her daughter which
my cousin won
girls will be girls
so i had a target on my back as soon as
i walked through that door
she wasn't even subtle about it so much
so that when i complained to my mom she
already knew because some parents had
called her to tell her that their kids
had told them how horrible the teacher
was being
my mom didn't want to let me know that
my mom didn't want to let me know just
yet because she didn't know how to
handle it
eventually we ended up in a meeting with
the principal myself my mom mrs mcneil
and five other students in my class who
testified on my behalf mrs mcneill's
only response was
are you really going to believe a bunch
of kids
when she refused to apologize to me even
after being ordered to do so by the
principal my mother took me by the hand
and walked out
i spent two weeks being homeschooled
which i loved
my mom was a much better teacher than
that mcneil witch anyway
i even had a halloween party during my
sabbatical where even more classmates
told my mom about even more things
mcneil had done to me
some examples of her lovely behavior
were
not allowing me to do group projects
with my friends disqualifying me from
the book of book a week reading
competition because i read too fast not
letting me go to the principal's office
to get my inhaler
keeping me in during recess because i
tried answering too many questions etc
etc etc
so when my mother eventually went to
another meeting with mcneil and the
principal she came locked and loaded
eventually mcneil apologized and she did
get better
marginally
i didn't get punished for reading too
fast anymore but i was graded
particularly harshly and she gave me my
first failing grade on a science test
near the end of the year
my mother made her let me rewrite it but
still
the next year i walked into fifth grade
to see mr mcneil
her husband
oh joy
he was much more subtle than his wife
had been mostly just grading me harshly
and refusing to pick me for questions
and then claiming i wasn't participating
in class
but by the end of the year once i'd
gotten the rock off the back of the head
he was much more accommodating
he was the reason i was afraid
of failing fifth grade because of
missing the last two months
but i made it through into sixth grade
where i discovered that his wife got a
promotion and was now teaching sixth
grade
jesus h christ
the first few months of sixth grade
sucked heard which of course didn't get
any better after i was pronounced dead
from a seizure in early november
i was once again kept out of school for
two months to recover which i could
which i couldn't have been more happy
about
it had gotten to the point where going
to school was becoming a hell for me so
i was more than pleased to do two months
of homeschooling
and since i've been losing my arguments
with these teachers for the last couple
of years i was really rethinking my plan
to be a lawyer
luckily a new plan popped into my little
head though
one night while my mom and i were
watching television a e aired a special
edition of their biography series
focusing on steven spielberg i'd always
loved movies but for some reason the
idea that people actually made movies
just never computed in my brain
but that night was like a revelation
seeing behind the scenes pictures and
footage from jaws indiana jones and
jurassic park made my eyes sparkle even
more than the movies themselves
i want to make movies i told my mother
i thought you wanted to be a lawyer she
laughed
no i shook my head i want to do that
i turned back to the screen and didn't
turn away until the credits rolled
i checked the tv guide for a rerun as
soon as it ended and set the vcr to
record it for me so i could watch it
over and over again
that christmas as my two months away
from school was winding down i woke up
to find a black backpack under the tree
it was actually the last thing i went to
since i assumed it was for going back to
school
i had movies and toys and video games to
look at much more important than school
gear
eventually my mom prodded me
aren't you gonna look at the bag
oh
i pretended to have not noticed
even as a kid i would have even as a kid
i would always react super happy no
matter what the gift was
when i picked the bag up i wasn't ready
for how heavy it would be
setting it down gently i opened it up to
find a camcorder a collection of blank
tapes a full and a full-size vhs tape
that would let you put the
camcorder-sized tapes in into a vcr and
a book about how to write screenplays
i think my mom was letting me save the
best for last on purpose a damn near wet
myself
the camcorder was secondhand but i
didn't know that and it wouldn't have
mattered to me anyway this was my ticket
to being the next spielberg
i immediately went about writing a movie
called the rise and fall of apocalypse
catchy title eh
i didn't realize it at the time but i
think i was working out my incredible
anxiety about the end of the world
you see in late 1998 i'd accidentally
spotted a rag magazine declaring january
1st 2000 to be the end of the world in a
convenience store and fell into a total
anxiety and panic spiral it didn't and
it didn't stop when y2k didn't melt the
world either
there was always a new excuse first it
was well actually 2001 is the start of
is the real start of the new millennium
and then the did you know our calendars
are actually four years off from the
roman ones so the millennium isn't until
and then 9 11 happened and
oh boy i spent weeks as a full-on mental
basket case assuming at any minute world
war iii would break out and we'd all be
nuked
i saw three different therapists tried
several different anti-anxiety meds none
of which worked
and this source of apocalyptic panic
never really went away
i still get a twinge in my chest when
something particularly ominous happens
north korea being temperamental in 2017
actually sent me into a fit of physical
panic symptoms that lasted non-stop for
weeks and still visit once in a while
but the rise and fall of apocalypse was
i think my way of dealing with it back
then
it was about a girl angela reed who came
from a long line of scions who stopped
the multiple apocalypses that had been
predicted throughout history
apocalypse wasn't just an event but a
person
a long forgotten greek god the god of
ends beginnings and all that
accomplished them
who our heroine angela would fight back
with the help of her plucky group of
friends
by mid-january i had the script written
i cast my friends in all the parts and
we started shooting in the beginning of
february
who knew a little movie with my friends
could have ruined my life
the girl i cast in the lead part of
angela was named chansey like the
pokemon only not really this this is one
of those fake names
she and i had become fast friends in the
fall when she started dating my friend
mark dating in the sixth grade
essentially meant hanging out and
kissing sometimes i was the mediator of
their relationship she would tell me
what he was doing that was making her
mad which i would then translate to him
gently because i'd gotten pretty good at
that all the while thinking she should
just be happy to have him
but during my seizure break from school
they ended up breaking up
mark didn't tell me why and she wouldn't
either but i would eventually find out
that her mother who we'll call
lilith
was batshit insane
so we were making a movie
chansey as well as my friends beverly
jillian carrie mark matt robert and
nathan would be over at the house almost
every day shooting i had no idea what i
was going to do with all this footage
since i didn't have the slightest clue
how to edit vhs tapes but i was
determined to get the movie in the can
and we did it we filled four tapes for a
total of eight hours worth of footage
before march break
during the break i spent most of my time
on the internet trying to figure out how
to edit vhs tapes which turned out to be
a complicated system of connecting two
vcrs and basically hitting pause and
record at the precisely right moments
i wasn't looking forward to that but i
planned on hijacking the vcr in the
living room taking it to my bedroom and
spending my evenings editing the movie
homework be damned
when march break ended and i went back
to school
and first when march break ended i went
back to school and for some reason
chancey was avoiding me
and a lot of other girls too
not the ones i was friends with like
beverly and carrie but most of the other
girls they would give me dirty looks and
scurry away when i asked what was wrong
all the girls seemed to know something
that none of the guys did
this went on for about two weeks before
i got called down to the principal's
office one afternoon
what had i done was i in trouble
yes yes i was in trouble
when i got down there i found my mother
the principal chancey lilith
and a police officer
i was informed that chansey had accused
me of sexually assaulting her
i had no idea how to respond to that i
was completely and utterly dumbfounded
and as someone who rarely has nothing to
say that's saying something
and the cop read into it
what have you got to say for yourself he
demanded
i didn't i began but he cut me off yeah
go on say you didn't do it go ahead
leave him the [ __ ] alone my mother
yelled wrapping her arm around my
shoulder he said he didn't do it that's
what they all say the cop responded
he's 12 years old my mother stated
firmly
doing a real crack up job raising him
then aren't you the cop said
i thought my mother's head was going to
blow off
chancy and lilith had yet to say a thing
the meeting ended soon with the
principal enduring the cop
insuring the cop and lilith that chancey
and i would be kept apart while the
investigation was underway
he should be expelled lilith spat at me
i still hadn't managed to get five words
out of my mouth i stayed silent all the
way home when we got into the kitchen my
mother sat down with me and asked very
matter-of-factly
did you do it
no
i stated i had literally never touched
chancy why would i had a mad crush on
her ex-boyfriend for heaven's sake
okay my mom said then we'll figure this
out
i didn't figure anything out i was kept
completely out of the loop because my
mother saw how immensely stressful this
was for me and didn't want to trigger
another seizure
lilith wouldn't take her calls and so
she had to deal exclusively with the
cops who were nothing if not total
pricks the police were 100 convinced
that not only had i done it but that
there were probably other girls i'd
assaulted who were too scared to come
forward
my mother told him i was gay and they
just laughed at her
the story was that i had apparently
sexually assaulted chancy while we were
filming the movie but she didn't tell
her mom until
about it until march break because she
was too embarrassed
again for the record
i never even so much as high-fived her
it was her word against mine and the
cops had already decided whose word was
gospel they were actually preparing to
charge me with sexual sexual assault
when mark's mom cindy had an
idea they said it was while they were
making the movie right
she asked my mom one night she was on
speakerphone and i was listening outside
the door flat out over being left out of
my own defense
yeah my mom said
well you said jimmy never stopped
recording cindy pointed out
so beyond the tapes if she's telling the
truth
i rushed into my room grabbed the tapes
and barged into my mom's room i've got
proof i proclaimed
the next day cindy came up with mark and
they along with my mother and i sat
around the television in the living room
watching all eight hours of footage
i never stepped out from behind that
camera
that lying little [ __ ] mark huffed
both of her mother scolded him but
kind of nodded in agreement i knew you
didn't do it mark said before hannah
before him and his mom left the that
evening
and then he hugged me
mark and i had never hugged
least of all since i'd come out
but in that moment i wasn't getting a
hug from my crush i was getting a hug
from my best friend
my mom and cindy took the tapes to the
cops where they spent another eight
hours reviewing them
the cops kept the tapes saying that they
needed further review
about three weeks later a cop car pulled
into our driveway on a sunday and three
officers came to the door
my mother let them in and we all sat
around the kitchen table my father
silent with rage as they spoke
you're lucky one said to me
chances decided not to file charges
my mother sighed and pointed at the cop
i told you he didn't do it
chansey never said he didn't do it the
cop said she and her mother just didn't
want to ruin his life
so you should thank them because i never
would have let up if someone assaulted
my daughter
he didn't assault anyone my father
bellowed making me jump in my chair
keep your voice down mr summerton the
[ __ ] cop said
they didn't stick around much longer
only long enough to inform me that
they'd be keeping the tapes as evidence
in case chansey changed her mind
my mother was so relieved she was in
tears as they left
i was relieved
but also angry
they stole my movie
years later i ended up having to sit
next to chancey on the bus home from
school in junior high
by this time i'd been seizure free for a
few years and no one had so much has
called me queer so my mom was a bit more
relaxed with how i got to
with how i got home from school though i
was still driven in the morning
when chancy sat next to me i thought my
heart was going to explode i didn't move
i stared out the window in silence for a
good 15 minutes before she spoke
i'm sorry she said
i didn't say anything i just slowly
looked over at her
what happened in elementary she said
that wasn't me
my mom was so angry she thought because
you and i spent a lot of time together
that we must be fooling around i told
her i didn't like you that way and she
decided that meant you'd done something
without my permission
so you never said that i did
that
i said i was biting my tongue so hard i
could taste blood the bumpy road wasn't
helping
nah never she said
i'm glad your mom fixed it all
turns out lilith had gotten pregnant
with chancey when she was just out of
elementary school so assumed her
daughter would be getting up to the same
things as her
it's what scared mark away when he and
chansey were dating
apparently she never calmed down about
it either forcing chancy into an
all-girls catholic high school when the
time came a school that was an hour's
drive away from where they lived
i was told she wouldn't let her have her
own cell phone wouldn't let her go to
sleepovers and wouldn't let her go on
birth control even though chancey's
doctor wanted her on the pill because of
medical issues
i don't know what happened to her after
that she fell out of touch with the
friends we had in common and ended up
being blacklisted by every boy in our
junior high once they found out what had
happened to me
none of them would go anywhere near her
not even his friends
it's sad really
she actually was victimized just not by
me
but by her mother i hope she's out there
somewhere
now doing okay
okey-dokey so that's the end of chapter
three
um
[Music]
i figure i'll leave off there
since that's a lot to chew on um
yeah let me know what you think let me
know if it's worth writing more of
um because i am not
confident in my ability to write prose
um
nick is definitely the the prose writer
out of the two of us and they're not
here
so yeah thank you guys so much for
listening uh my name is james and
next week
maybe
it will be the two of us i can't
remember the dates and if not
then
um something else
will
happen
for the padreon next week
not sure what
we'll figure that out when the time
comes
all right thank you guys so much for
listening have a great week